{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Lesson Summary\par
In this lesson, you have learned:\par
\par
Data science is the study of large quantities of data, which can reveal insights that help organizations make strategic choices.\par
\par
There are  many paths to a career in data science; most, but not all, involve a little math, a little science, and a lot of curiosity about data.\par
\par
New data scientists need to be curious, judgemental and argumentative.\par
\par
Why data science is considered the sexiest job in the 21st century, paying high salaries for skilled workers.\par
\par
\par
What Makes Someone a Data Scientist?\par
Now that you know what is in the book, it is time to put down some definitions. Despite their ubiquitous use, consensus evades the notions of Big data and Data Science. The question, Who is a data scientist? is very much alive and being contested by individuals, some of whom are merely interested in protecting their discipline or academic turfs. In this section, I attempt to address these controversies and explain Why a narrowly construed definition of either Big data or Data science will result in excluding hundreds of thousands of individuals who have recently turned to the emerging field.\par
\par
Everybody loves a data scientist, wrote Simon Rogers (2012) in the Guardian. Mr. Rogers also traced the newfound love for number crunching to a quote by Google's Hal Varian, who declared that the sexy job in the next ten years will be statisticians.\par
\par
Whereas Hal Varian named statisticians sexy, it is widely believed that what he really meant were data scientists. This raises several important questions:\par
\par
What is data science?\par
\par
How does it differ from statistics?\par
\par
What makes someone a data scientist?\par
\par
In the times of big data, a question as simple as, What is data science? can result in many answers. In some cases, the diversity of opinion on these answers borders on hostility.\par
\par
I define a data scientist as someone who finds solutions to problems by analyzing Big or small data using appropriate tools and then tells stories to communicate her findings to the relevant stakeholders. I do not use the data size as a restrictive clause. A data below a certain arbitrary threshold does not make one less of a data scientist. Nor is my definition of a data scientist restricted to particular analytic tools, such as machine learning. As long as one has a curious mind, fluency in analytics, and the ability to communicate the findings, I consider the person a data scientist.\par
\par
I define data science as something that data scientists do. Years ago, as an engineering student at the University of Toronto, I was stuck With the question: What is engineering? I wrote my master's thesis on forecasting housing prices and my doctoral dissertation on forecasting homebuilders' choices related to What they build, when they build, and where they build new housing. In the civil engineering department, Others were working on designing buildings, bridges, tunnels, and worrying about the stability of slopes. My work, and that of my supervisor, was not your traditional garden-variety engineering. Obviously, I was repeatedly asked by others whether my research was indeed engineering.\par
\par
When I shared these concerns with my doctoral supervisor, Professor Eric Miller, he had a laugh. Dr Miller spent a lifetime researching urban land use and transportation and had earlier earned a doctorate from MIT. "Engineering is what engineers do," he responded. Over the next 17 years, I realized the wisdom in his statement. You first become an engineer by obtaining a degree and then registering with the local professional body that regulates the engineering profession. Now you are an engineer. You can dig tunnels; write software codes; design components of an iPhone or a supersonic jet. You are an engineer. And when you are leading the global response to a financial crisis in your role as the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), as Dr Raghuram Rajan did, you are an engineer.\par
\par
Professor Raghuram Rajan did his first degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology. He pursued economics in graduate studies, later became a professor at a prestigious university, and eventually landed at the IMF. He is currently serving as the 23rd Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. Could someone argue that his intellectual prowess is rooted only in his training as an economist and that the fundamentals he learned as an engineering student played no role in developing his problem-solving abilities?\par
\par
Professor Rajan is an engineer. So are Xi Jinping, the President of the People's Republic of China, and Alexis Tsipras, the Greek Prime Minister who is forcing the world to rethink the fundamentals of global economics. They might not be designing new circuitry, distillation equipment, or bridges, but they are helping build better societies and economies and there can be no better definition of engineering and engineers\f1\emdash that is, individuals dedicated to building better economies and societies.\par
\par
So briefly, I would argue that data science is what data scientists do.\par
\par
Others have many different definitions. In September 2015, a co-panelist at a meetup organized by BigDataUniversity.com in Toronto confined data science to machine learning. There you have it. If you are not using the black boxes that makeup machine learning, as per some experts in the field, you are not a data scientist. Even if you were to discover the cure to a disease threatening the lives of millions, turf-protecting colleagues will exclude you from the data science club.\par
\par
Dr Vincent Granville (2014), an author on data science, offers certain thresholds to meet to be a data scientist. On pages 8 and 9 in Developing Analytic talent, Dr Granville describes the new data science professor as a non-tenured instructor at a non-traditional university, who publishes research results in online blogs, does not waste time writing grants, works from home, and earns more money than the traditional tenured professors. Suffice it to say that the thriving academic community of data scientists might disagree with Dr Granville.\par
\par
Dr Granville uses restrictions on data size and methods to define what data science is. He defines a data scientist as one who can easily process a So-million-row data set in a couple of hours, and who distrusts (statistical) models. He distinguishes data science from statistics. Yet he lists algebra, calculus, and training in probability and statistics as necessary background to understand data science (page 4).\par
\par
Some believe that big data is merely about crossing a certain threshold on data size or the number of observations, or is about the use of a particular tool, such as Hadoop. Such arbitrary thresholds on data size are problematic because, with innovation, even regular computers and off-the-shelf software have begun to manipulate very large data sets. Stata, a commonly used software by data scientists and statisticians, announced that one could now process between 2 billion to 24.4 billion rows using its desktop solutions. If Hadoop is the password to the big data club, Stata's ability to process 24.4 billion rows, under certain limitations, has just gatecrashed that big data party.\par
\par
It is important to realize that one who tries to set arbitrary thresholds to exclude others is likely to run into inconsistencies. The goal should be to define data science in a more exclusive, discipline- and platform-independent, size-free context where data-centric problem solving and the ability to weave strong narratives take center stage.\par
\par
Given the controversy, I would rather consult others to see how they describe a data scientist. Why don't we again consult the Chief Data Scientist of the United States? Recall Dr Patil told the Guardian newspaper in 2012 that a data scientist is that unique blend of skills that can both unlock the insights of data and tell a fantastic story via the data. What is admirable about Dr Patil's definition is that it is inclusive of individuals of various academic backgrounds and training, and does not restrict the definition of a data scientist to a particular tool or subject it to a certain arbitrary minimum threshold of data size.\par
\par
The other key ingredient for a successful data scientist is a behavioral trait: curiosity. A data scientist has to be one with a very curious mind, willing to spend significant time and effort to explore her hunches. In journalism, the editors call it having the nose for news. Not all reporters know where the news lies. Only those Who have the nose for news get the Story. Curiosity is equally important for data scientists as it is for journalists.\par
\par
Rachel Schutt is the Chief Data Scientist at News Corp. She teaches a data science course at Columbia University. She is also the author of an excellent book, Doing Data Science. In an interview With the New York Times, Dr Schutt defined a data scientist as someone who is a part computer scientist, part software engineer, and part statistician (Miller, 2013). But that's the definition of an average data scientist. "The best", she contended, "tend to be really curious people, thinkers who ask good questions and are O.K. dealing with unstructured situations and trying to find structure in them.\f0\par
  \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
The Final Deliverable\par
The ultimate purpose of analytics is to communicate findings to the concerned who might use these insights to formulate policy or strategy. Analytics summarize findings in tables and plots. The data scientist should then use the insights to build the narrative to communicate the findings. In academia, the final deliverable is in the form of essays and reports. Such deliverables are usually 1,000 to 7,000 words in length. In consulting and business, the final deliverable takes on several forms. It can be a small document of fewer than 1,500 words illustrated with tables and plots, or it could be a comprehensive document comprising several hundred pages. Large consulting firms, such as McKinsey and Deloitte,I routinely generate analytics-driven reports to communicate their findings and, in the process, establish their expertise in specific knowledge domains.\par
\par
Let's review the "United States Economic Forecast", a publication by the Deloitte University Press. This document serves as a good example for a deliverable that builds narrative from data and analytics. The 24-page report focuses on the state of the U.S. economy as observed in December 2014. The report opens with a grabber highlighting the fact that contrary to popular perception, the economic and job growth has been quite robust in the United States. The report is not merely a statement of facts.\par
\par
In fact, it is a carefully crafted report that cites Voltaire and follows a distinct theme. The report focuses on the good news about the U.S. economy. These include the increased investment in manufacturing equipment in the U.S. and the likelihood of higher consumer consumption resulting from lower oil prices.\par
\par
The Deloitte report uses time series plots to illustrate trends in markets. The GDP growth chart shows how the economy contracted during the Great Recession and has rebounded since then. The graphic presents four likely scenarios for the future. Another plot shows the changes in consumer spending. The accompanying narrative focuses on income inequality in the U.S. and refers to Thomas Pikkety's book on the same. The Deloitte report mentions many consumers did not experience an increase in their real incomes over the years, while they still maintained their level of spending. Other graphics focused on housing, business, and government sectors, international trade, labor, and financial markets, and prices. The appendix carries four tables documenting data for the four scenarios discussed in the report.\par
\par
Deloitte's "United States Economic Forecast" serves the very purpose that its authors intended. The report uses data and analytics to generate the likely economic scenarios. It builds a powerful narrative in support of the thesis statement that the U.S. economy is doing much better than most would like to believe. At the same time, the report shows Deloitte to be a competent firm capable of analyzing economic data and prescribing strategies to cope with the economic challenges.\par
\par
Now consider if we were to exclude the narrative from this report and presented the findings as a deck of PowerPoint slides with eight graphics and four tables. The PowerPoint slides would have failed to communicate the message that the authors carefully crafted in the report citing Piketty and Voltaire. I consider Deloitte's report a good example of storytelling with data and encourage you to read the report to decide for yourself whether the deliverable would have been equally powerful without the narrative.\par
\par
Now, let us work backward from the Deloitte report. Before the authors started their analysis, they must have discussed the scope of the final deliverable. They would have deliberated the key message of the report and then looked for the data and analytics they needed to make their case. The initial planning and conceptualizing of the final deliverable is therefore extremely important for producing a compelling document. Embarking on analytics, without due consideration to the final deliverable, is likely to result in a poor-quality document where the analytics and narrative would struggle to blend.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
The Report Structure\par
Before starting the analysis, think about the structure of the report. Will it be a brief report of five or fewer pages, or will it be a longer document running more than 100 pages in length? The structure of the report depends on the length of the document. A brief report is more to the point and presents a summary of key findings. A detailed report incrementally builds the argument and contains details about other relevant works, research methodology, data sources, and intermediate findings along with the main results.\par
\par
I have reviewed reports by leading consultants including Deloitte and McKinsey. I found that the length of the reports varied depending largely on the purpose of the report. Brief reports were drafted as commentaries on current trends and developments that attracted public or media attention. Detailed and comprehensive reports offered a critical review of the subject matter with extensive data analysis and commentary. Often, detailed reports collected new data or interviewed industry experts to answer the research questions.\par
\par
Even if you expect the report to be brief, sporting five or fewer pages, I recommend that the deliverable follow a prescribed format including the cover page, table of contents, executive summary, detailed contents, acknowledgments, references, and appendices (if needed).\par
\par
I often find the cover page to be missing in documents. It is not the inexperience of undergraduate students that is reflected in submissions that usually miss the cover page. In fact, doctoral candidates also require an explicit reminder to include an informative cover page. I hasten to mention that the business world sleuths are hardly any better. Just search the Internet for reports and you will find plenty of reports from reputed firms that are missing the cover page.\par
\par
At a minimum, the cover page should include the title of the report, names of authors, their affiliations, and contacts, the name of the institutional publisher (if any), and the date of publication. I have seen numerous reports missing the date of publication, making it impossible to cite them without the year and month of publication. Also, from a business point of view, authors should make it easier for the reader to reach out to them. Having contact details at the front makes the task easier.\par
\par
"A table of contents (ToC)" is like a map needed for a trip never taken before. You need to have a sense of the journey before embarking on it. A map provides a visual proxy for the actual travel with details about the landmarks that you will pass by in your trip. The ToC with main headings and lists of tables and figures offers a glimpse of what lies ahead in the document. Never shy away from including a ToC, especially if your document, excluding cover page, table of contents, and references, is five or more pages in length.\par
\par
Even for a short document, I recommend an "abstract" or an "executive summary". Nothing is more powerful than explaining the crux of your arguments in three paragraphs or less. Of course, for larger documents running a few hundred pages, the executive summary could be longer. An "introductory section" is always helpful in setting up the problem for the reader who might be new to the topic and who might need to be gently introduced to the subject matter before being immersed in intricate details. A good follow-up to the introductory section is a review of available relevant research on the subject matter. The length of the literature review section depends upon how contested the subject matter is. In instances where the vast majority of researchers have concluded in one direction, the literature review could be brief with citations for only the most influential authors on the subject. On the other hand, if the arguments are more nuanced with caveats aplenty, then you must cite the relevant research to offer adequate context before you embark on your analysis. You might use the literature review to highlight gaps in the existing knowledge, which your analysis will try to fill. This is where you formally introduce your research questions and hypothesis.\par
\par
In the "methodology" section, you introduce the research methods and data sources you used for the analysis. If you have collected new data, explain the data collection exercise in some detail. You will refer to the literature review to bolster your choice for variables, data, and methods and how they will help you answer your research questions.\par
\par
The results section is where you present your empirical findings. Starting with descriptive statistics (see Chapter 4, "Serving Tables") and illustrative graphics (see Chapter S, "Graphic Details" for plots and Chapter 10, "Spatial Data Analytics" for maps), you will move toward formally testing your hypothesis (see Chapter 6, "Hypothetically Speaking").\par
\par
In case you need to run statistical models, you might turn to regression models (see Chapter 7, "Why Tall Parents Don't Have Even Taller Children") or categorical analysis (see Chapters 8, "To Be or Not to Be" and 2., "Categorically Speaking About Categorical Data"). If you are working with time-series data, you can turn to Chapter 11, Doing Serious Time with Time Series. You can also report results from other empirical techniques that fall under the general rubric of data mining (see Chapter 12, "Data Mining for Gold"). Note that many reports in the business sector present results in a more palatable fashion by holding back the statistical details and relying on illustrative graphics to summarize the results.\par
\par
The results section is followed by the discussion section, where you craft your main arguments by building on the results you have presented earlier.\par
\par
The "discussion section" is where you rely on the power of narrative to enable numbers to communicate your thesis to your readers. You refer the reader to the research question and the knowledge gaps you identified earlier. You highlight how your findings provide the ultimate missing piece to the puzzle.\par
\par
Of course, not all analytics return a smoking gun. At times, more frequently than I would like to acknowledge, the results provide only a partial answer to the question and that, too, with a long list of caveats.\par
\par
In the "conclusion" section, you generalize your specific findings and take on a rather marketing approach to promote your findings so that the reader does not remain stuck in the caveats that you have voluntarily outlined earlier. You might also identify future possible developments in research and applications that could result from your research. What remains is housekeeping, including a list of references, the acknowledgment section (acknowledging the support of those who have enabled your work is always good), and "appendices", if needed.\par
\par
Have You Done Your Job as a Writer?\par
As a data scientist, you are expected to do thorough analysis with the appropriate data, deploying the appropriate tools. As a writer, you are responsible for communicating your findings to the readers. Transport Policy, a leading research publication in transportation planning, offers a checklist for authors interested in publishing with the journal. The checklist is a series of questions authors are expected to consider before submitting their manuscripts to the journal. I believe the checklist is useful for budding data scientists and, therefore, I have reproduced it verbatim for their benefit.\par
\par
Have you told readers, at the outset, what they might gain by reading your paper?\par
\par
Have you made the aim of your work clear?\par
\par
Have you explained the significance of your contribution?\par
\par
Have you set your work in the appropriate context by giving sufficient background (including a complete set of relevant references) to your work?\par
\par
Have you addressed the question of practicality and usefulness?\par
\par
Have you identified future developments that might result from your work?\par
\par
Have you structured your paper in a clear and logical fashion?\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Keeping all videos and reading material in mind,  \par
I recall Mr. White Statement about Data Sceintist, Data Science is what, a Data Scientist do. In my opinion, a Data Scientist is the one who knows how to convert large quantum of data (structured / unstructured) to useful information. Data Scientist plays with the data to extract relevant data, data cleansing, data mining, applying approriate statistical / analytics tools for Data Analysis and bring out results and conclusion. Besides technicality, Mr Haider said, Data Sceintist should be Curious, Argumentative and Judgemental.\par
\par
Whereas, Data Science is the scientific perspective of data, it deals with large amount of data for any entity (eg. organizations) and study the data scientifically by applying Maths, Statistics, Analytical Tools, Programing and draw a conclusion which shall bring forward an insight of those results which were not visible in a bird's eye view of that data set.\par
\par
\par
\par
Professionally, i belong to the domain of work which is related to Project Management in Oil & Gas Sector. We do not have any data analytics tool which can enable us to see what is beyond. We have plenty of data of previous projects which involves Engineering Data, Procurement Data, Construction Data, Commissioning Data and others. This data set, I believe can not only help to improve Project Implementation but also make overall process quite effective. \par
}
 